you
hey you folks quility Nair and welcome
to let's try an early press build of
railway Empire Railway Empire is a
railroad business management tycoon II
kind of game from Calypso and from the
same development studio that brought us
various iterations of things like
patrician and Grand Ages medieval for
example ah and I have to kind of feel
like the people who made this game are
kind of obsessed by the same kind of
railroad II kind of games as I clearly
AM if you guys would ever watch my
channel before I'm really really really
excited to be playing this over here um
the game has a campaign mode over here
with a variety of missions it's got a
scenario some scenarios over here and
it's got a sandbox mode where you can I
think play with a infinite money and
then the free mode over here which is
not infinite money um and actually does
have goals for you to achieve if you
want to target those but it's a far more
tunable experience in terms of your
starting situation where you start your
money your competitors the difficulty
level and so on and so forth I feel like
should I just do like the first campaign
mission because it sort of tutorial and
it might show things off or go into just
a free mode I kind of feel like just
going into the free mode so that I don't
sort of I don't know spoil some of the
the story kind of stuff but there's a
little nice animations to introduce
things their story there's background
for the characters and the scenarios
you're in but I feel like the most
appropriate thing to show off might just
be the free mode over here so the game
does start in as are the 1830's in the
u.s. that sort of pioneering railroad
spirit from from east to west basically
to to combine the continent there's like
it's crazy how much it spans because you
play in different eras um and but
there's a massive technology tree
actually like 40 different trains
there's like 300 technologies or
something like that I'm going to start
where am I going to start I'm gonna
start in the east right over here and I
feel like we'll do the earliest start
1830 over here that sounds like a good
idea with the Great Lakes in the north
the Atlantic titties than the
Appalachian Mountains in the center
there's less arable land available in
its area than others those areas that
can be cultivated are therefore densely
possibly pop
for the most part by far the largest and
most important city was New York City
which by 1830 was already the largest
Goods hub on the American East Coast so
you get the start you pick your starting
city over here you will have to build
your first station in the city that you
pick the game highlights four good
cities to probably start from won't go
ahead
I wonder if we should start somewhere
else than Baltimore
Charlotte is recommended Toledo's
recommended New York is recommended you
know both of ours gonna be okay
Washington's right next door it's gonna
be really easy to connect you and maybe
we can get our way up to New York and do
some cool stuff there I'm thinking I'm
actually gonna go and just disable the
competitors there so we can focus
because this is our first video that
we're doing for this we're gonna focus
exactly entirely on the game mechanics
of track-laying that sort of thing
without having the pressure of having
competitors get in our way you can
choose whether you want the rail network
to be easy or realistic and easy trains
can pass through each other no delays no
traffic issues no collisions anything
like that so you don't need any signals
or anything we're gonna go with
realistic over here which does offer
signal it's not like super intense
complicated signalling but you're still
gonna have to worry about it some so
yeah I'll go ahead and just start with
this and it's probably okay we shall
conquer them you do get to choose your
character that you're going to be using
so a little bit of flavor text it also
determines who is not going to be your
opponent I suppose so we can go with the
general who has a discount to track
construction cost which is very good
this is actually probably one of the
most expensive things as opposed to
building stations it's not a good idea
to keep me waiting there's the Gangstar
here who can there's there's employees
that you can hire in the game again
forget you let you get more of them for
cheaper to think about giving everything
up and dedicating my life to poetry
uh-huh the industrialist here gives us
higher freight prices there's no way to
halt the progress of Technology doc
Murphy the engineer gives us 20%
additional innovation points per month
miles nice the lady here gives us higher
ticket prices for passengers presumably
I pity those poor unsuspecting souls
they won't even realize that we ripped
them off and the trickster gives us a
discount on all locomotives and auctions
you know so I'm gonna go ahead with the
engineer because come on answer doc
Murphy we can't rename him over here if
we want doc quill there we go
name of our company uh the quill Express
Co there we go that's the name of our
company there and then we can jump right
into the game mm-hmm nice little painted
scenery but the cutscenes I think are
quite lovely as well the little
animations they throw in here although
you have no competitors in this scenario
you'll have to complete your list of
tasks as well as possible for a good
rating so the game is based very much on
completing tasks to finish this scenario
within a certain time span because what
they've done here is they've made it so
that the era you play in is sort of like
a finite experience and then you start a
game in another era for example so to
really focus on the vibe of each
particular area over here and as far as
I can tell these are I guess
procedurally generated and randomly
generated she gets a nice variety in
there and includes considerations for
opponents like you can there's a stock
market manipulation you can do so buying
stock buying out your opponents that
sort of thing so here we're gonna have
some tasks over here so that we can
prove our scenarios for the earliest
tasks are simply connecting rural
stations to our rail network and
achieving revenue from transporting mail
for example and finally by 1836 try to
get an express connection between
Baltimore and Buffalo so let's see what
we can do with that there's these great
little interactive like mini tutorials
built in to let you know like your steps
in order hey maybe you should build a
station here and here's how you do it
which i think is great we're gonna crash
that so I do have to start in Baltimore
because I started that as my home city
after that you got a fair amount of
flexibility so we're gonna build over
here we've got a variety of little sort
of just basic structures we can build
here there's also these city buildings
University is even more tech attractions
to bring in more passenger revenue
industries and so on and so forth we're
gonna go ahead and start with the
station in Baltimore here we've got
three sizes the sizes of the station
give you different amounts of cash
area this matters a lot for some of
these little rural areas because you can
often get a couple of farms and pin them
which is nice now in the cities the
larger ones also give you well just you
get a lot more tracks I think it's
probably okay in Baltimore to go ahead
and invest in the largest station so by
holding shift and scrolling here I can
rotate it I'm gonna do something kind of
like this because we're definitely only
happen to cross the river to the north
I'm gonna pull back just a scooch so we
have a bit more room before the river to
mess with our tracks a little bit so we
got a first station out I'm gonna put
one in Washington I think to save money
I'm going to start with a small train
station letting me know that it should
build the second station over here now
start with a small one and I'm gonna
rotate it something like this
I'll just art with one track we can
upgrade the station later on with ease
in which case it'll add more tracks
sorted this way so I think that
placements kind of okay let's go and
build some rail over here some track and
again we can get a little animation to
give us some tips about how to do that
now the track Lang in this is I think
really fantastic so we're gonna choose
the starting node for we can draw it
it's pretty smart about trying to draw a
relatively smart track and if I click
here it doesn't actually build the track
not until I hit that Buy button I can
actually be like okay well I don't have
enough money right now I'm just gonna
right-click and close that for now but
if I click it again it remembers what's
there so we can always hit the Buy
button over here or trash it the other
thing you can do is you can grab it and
put in nodes and redraw your track this
way maybe or cuz you're trying to get a
better incline or you're trying to save
some money by going around a mountain
instead of building a tunnel for now I
think I'm gonna take the most direct
route that it develops over here it
really tries hard to build bridges
tunnels or just regrade the landscape
here to avoid as many inclines as
possible so we're still gonna get one
here because I think Baltimore's
relatively uphill from Washington so
we're gonna get 4% incline which isn't
great for our really weaksauce trains
you have in 1830 but we'll have to make
it work so we're gonna go ahead and pay
and build that crack I mean you can zoom
in fairly far to the cities we'll have a
little horse-drawn wagons going around
that people walking around just lovely
gorgeous stuff so then we get some
information
how to in big in our cities we'll look
at that in just a moment I'm gonna get a
train going on here so this is where you
create a new train you can start by
buying them a locomotive or setting up
the rail line you can do the use of
through these buttons here but they've
got a little reminder to make sure you
know what you're doing let's go ahead
and set up the rail line first so what
we're gonna do for this is we're going
to choose going from Washington to
Baltimore and then it'll automatically
loop back and forth puts these little
arrows just to show you like the
ultimate path between the cities the
direct path and then it highlights the
actual track that will be used including
which platform this train would prefer
use as is by default it's got automatic
loading it'll just try to load the most
valuable goods to transport between
places but you can say hey I only want
this to be express freight or I want to
manually set what to load at each
location we'll leave it on automatic
over here we'll say ok for that route so
that's Washington to Baltimore and then
we're gonna add a locomotive now since
its 1830 and since we haven't unlocked
anything with our tech we've only got a
single locomotive option over here
the grasshopper it's got a maximum speed
of 15 miles per hour and the Train
performance here which is really
important for climbing hills for example
is only 11% it is not a great locomotive
don't even look like a locomotive but
that is the grasshopper for you still we
have not much choice we're gonna go
ahead and purchase this bad boy over
here so we've got that now what you can
do as well is you can add extra cars to
your trains so for example we made this
an Express which is gonna carry
passengers and nail for example we might
want to put in on a dining car for 20%
more ticket revenue male car for more
revenue for male the caboose to make our
employees stronger refrigeration car so
that our food is better and so on and so
forth and I think there's more things
you can unlock your later on well beyond
that we'll look at technology in just a
moment personnel so you can actually put
up to four different workers on a train
and there's a little star here for the
conductor because it's actually a
conductor waiting to be hired and
available so let's take a look we've got
scarlet Philip over here who's
disciplined she would give us a
10% boost - oh there it is it's like
there's a tooltip right tooltip on the
icon smooth loading and therefore
increases profit for transportation of
mail by 10% you know what it's probably
worth via the recruitment cost let's go
ahead and do that so she's here giving
us a boost to mail on the Washington
Baltimore route and she's hired we can
always move her from train to train if
we would like we got a little bit more
info here whatever train reaches the
city Freight mail passengers will be
unloaded the rising number rising
numbers that you get a little pop up
resident transport revenue the faster
you transport Express Goods the higher
the revenue so Express Goods like these
passengers in this mail that's being
loaded onto this train right now going
faster would make us more money you can
see how valuable this carload is over
here and our current speed can Center
the view on the train and we can even
ride along the train including blowing
the whistle
which is great I can move the camera
around and we can go and position
ourselves in a couple of different
actions look at all the people we need
to get on I think that's a lovely it
gives you something to do while you're
waiting for things to happen let's take
a look at the city over here Baltimore
what's its deal well Baltimore over here
is currently a size three city has a
certain population which is currently
going down because they're good
requirements are not being met by the
way we're playing pretty slow right now
which is why I didn't want to put any
opponents because all the explaining is
certainly gonna slow down our pace if we
click here we can actually see all the
goods Baltimore has and wants so for
example it wants grain it's got some
grain right now though that's going down
it also wants corn but doesn't have any
at all also doesn't have any beer or
sugar or cloth or fruit these are all
things that doesn't have right now and
because it's unsatisfied it's not
growing if you satisfy a city it will
slowly grow and go up in size which will
generate more and more and more goods as
well as getting more slots for industry
over here I can actually add my own
industry slots if I had more money like
we could build a meat industry here in
Baltimore if we wanted to and that might
actually not be a bad idea but let's
hold off on that at this time in the the
campaign's a lot of these are already
built in things and so you get a bit of
a different flow we know that we would
be really great if we can get some grain
and corn into Baltimore so let's see
where we might be able to get that from
first of all we got a little tip over
here that hey maybe we should build a
rural station over here
that sounds pretty smart we can also go
ahead and check the flow of goods over
here and that actually show us goods
that are moving on their own already
this grain farm over here is via like
wagon loads which you can't see on the
map as far as I know there is grain
moving to New York and Albany and
Baltimore from here but clearly that
means there's a real demand there if
they're moving on their own so why don't
we go ahead and build a train station to
bring that in take a look at the milk
supply over here Baltimore I was also
getting some of that so if we bring it
there we know there's already demand so
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go and
build a new station now these stations
do have different catchment areas
depending on their radius now with the
city you really have to put the station
inside the city proper
with the industries you actually can't
plop it right on the industry you got to
put it near the industry so the circles
there if we build a large station here
we can actually reach both in one go and
it'll make our tracks a little simpler I
don't know if this is better or not than
building two separate ones that will
probably depend a lot on the location
but here we're gonna go ahead and build
that there that's gonna be okay
and let's think I'm gonna go because I
know I'm gonna want another station down
here as well so I'm gonna leave that
sort of bottom track over here to go to
that that bottom station and I'm gonna
grab this second from the bottom and the
plan will be to connect it up to the
Noland breeding station if we click that
we got a total incline of only 1% it's
gonna cost us a hundred and sixty
thousand dollars to build this track
though let's go and get some financing
assistance here and hope that we don't
backfire ourselves here's our company of
you over here we had a variety different
stats that we can look at our quarterly
report our competitors have we had any
and that would include the ability to
purchase their stock and even buying out
their company completely if we had
enough money we've also got a stock
market we can kind of invest in certain
materials like consumer goods if we
wanted to and we can take out a bond for
a loan I'm gonna take out the lowest
interest one we have to pay a back
relatively soon but so we got 4%
interest rate so I'm gonna go ahead and
issue that one that should be okay so
now if I go back to my track
construction I have enough money to buy
it so I will do that and then I will go
ahead and construct a new train your
rail line will be to go from Noland
breeding to Baltimore and you have to
use a grasshopper because it's all only
option over there excellent and we could
swap the we can swap the what is the
conductor to this train but this train
is not going to be transporting mail so
it doesn't really help these rural
stations you never deliver anything to
them you just pick stuff up but you can
see we actually started with milk
because that probably had a slightly
higher demand although it's not worth
any money which is a little bit odd
we actually have demand for milk or is
it an intermediary step they've got some
but not as much as we might want we'll
do it anyway satisfy it again to grow
the city and we should be able to make
some more money down the road each town
has industries where higher quality
goods are manufactured these Goods may
be in the man in other cities and trains
running between cities carry Freight and
Express okay so in the freep oh oh there
we go
a weaving factory just opened up in
Baltimore that's just just private
ownership some you know other character
and you know in the multiverse of this
game opened a weaving Factory this is
something that wants wool although that
icon a bit that cotton and produces
cloth so one of many goods that gets
sort of produced and transformed over
time it's also got a rating here and you
can buy it if I click on here I could
try to purchase this industry it
wouldn't even be that expensive at three
hundred and ten thousand because I don't
think it's really made any noticeable
profit yet so the question then becomes
hey-oh news articles over here dog
travels entire USA Indian resettlement
bill passed negotiations of tribes begin
this is history in the appropriate
amount of time for us we've got an
engineer the other thing we've got is
we've got research we've got some stars
here that indicate that we've got a
couple of different tech options
available to us every month you earn
innovation points you can earn more
innovation points by building things
like universities these store up and
then you can spend them to unlock
technologies also from time to time
there will be actions that occur and an
auctions will let you purchase it
technology with money as opposed to
innovation points now innovation points
can unlock things like new locomotives
like the John Bull over here the o4o
it's a more powerful locomotive but and
it only takes a hundred innovation but
we need three Tech's unlocked first
before we can unlock it oh speaking of
auctions I mean overhead bid this
because I'm playing alone
no one's gonna bid against me so I will
get real railroad enthusiasts and
increase the number of passengers by 10%
so that's a nice little buff for free um
so here we can increase the transport
fee for Freight by 10 or the transported
mail by 10 and it keeps going down here
for passengers I'll go and get the I'll
get the freight and the mail
there we go so we're gonna have to wait
until we get more innovation points but
we should be able to make a little bit
more cash as is let's take a look at our
total list of trains you can see now
where actually we are turning a profit
on these which is gonna be all right
actually was that the profit unlike the
current load or the last load maybe that
was it maybe that's why it started at
zero that might make the most amount of
sense actually
anywho the trains are moving now they
are using different platforms right now
so they will not interfere with each
other that will change later as we get
more and more stuff going on that's some
more employees available we could hire a
second engineer here this one does
something different right
this one reduces because we can hire
either one reduces maintenance
requirement this one increases maximum
speed you know what I'm gonna recruit
them both that's gonna be fine and what
I'm going to do the washington-baltimore
which is probably gonna handle a lot of
Express I'm gonna go and give it the
faster speed like that and actually I
close out of that too quick we have a
miserable relationship these fellas over
here these these two workers do not get
along something at the description of
them again this is Jayden is timid and
Scarlett is disciplined and they don't
get along together so he's causing
unhappiness to her so that's not great
so what we'll do is we'll swap to the
other engineer over here he's happy we
click on him we can get a preview so it
won't do anything
I guess we'll call that good enough so
at least they're working together and
we're still getting some boosts and then
I'll go to the other train and assign
our engineer who has no tasks over there
I do like that there's a little star
there to let you know hey there's
someone that could be applied here the
golden ones mean you can just swap the
ones with the star means there's
literally someone just sitting around
doing nothing
so both are more still shrinking a lot
because it's not getting all of its
goods yet but we're gonna work our way
up there I am thinking what I'm gonna do
since we don't have enough money for a
giant station I'm gonna be able to smell
station right over here by the cattle
and we may not have enough for all the
track but let's figure out what we need
to get it going so we're gonna get this
one
down there too and so we got zero
inclination we won't get any real
competition at the entrances over here
big bridge oh that's gonna be really
expensive can I save money by requiring
less bridging that's not bad because I
think by sharing this it's short and B I
think it uses some of the same
infrastructure what if we say all right
all right all right maybe we can't
afford another bridge entirely what if
we go and build from here and see if we
can just connect over there now we can
do that later on this might cause a
little bit of an issue for us because
we're not actually sending up for dual
lanes that's not actually saving us that
much money which is interesting tell you
what I'm just gonna get you to stop on
the side and just do that you know what
let's do this because that's not bad now
we need a fair bit more cash before I
can buy the track I could take out
another loan I think I'm just gonna go
and accelerate the speed for now
the trains are turning a profit so
that's all right I in fact I'm realizing
for the sake of introducing this I may
have wanted to start with a little bit
more money but this will do go another
train coming in that both coming in at
the same time which is lovely now one
thing is we've gotten a couple of
breakdowns already on our trains okay we
got one notice at some point I don't
know if you were seen we got a little
exclamation mark in like a caution
symbol we had a train breakdown we can
help to print that if we build a
maintenance factory over here in
Baltimore does cost 80 grand but they
will receive service automatically
reducing the chance of you know all
kinds of problems it seems like a
worthwhile investment now there is
something else that we're gonna have to
do as well here which is provide them
with supply towers if at all possible
you can close Baltimore info thank you
very much
ah oh this one actually just suffered a
breakdown which is different from what I
was gonna say but they almost certainly
are starting to run low on supplies and
they'll need a supply tower soon so the
breakdown causes me to sit around for a
little while there it is we could hire a
constructor conductor let's save a
little bit of cash before we do that
you're just delivering mail which is
good let's take a look at our task list
actually oh yeah there's this this tips
page as well with a bunch of different
thing topics that you can check out
three rural stations we have another
couple of years before we need to reach
that so I think we're doing okay we are
planning on hooking up the cattle real
soon what do you want um you can hire
employees yes I'm aware thank you very
much oh I think in your business opened
up a meat industry opened up in
Baltimore
it wants cattle and it'll produce meat
and leather goods which is excellent now
we are working on getting our cattle
over there
larger the station is shorter to loading
on leading time will be and more rail
tracks will be available all right for
the sake of this interest you for bond
mm-hmm I'm wondering about taking out a
big ol alone another breakdown over here
oh we got some more research though we
can get leaf spring suspension increase
the number of passengers in every city
that's not bad
the bail over here increases trained
performance by 10% because bells are
awesome
we'd also unlock the Jan John Hancock
over here greater performance and
provisional cab that can lead us to a
few different things but I think what
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna unlock the
Bell this performance is good and then
next time we get a hundred points will
unlock the John Bull as opposed to John
Hancock and we'll keep going down this
kind of list over here more breakdowns
I guess they might be built in supply
towers at the stations and that might be
why it's not bring that up we'll see
I like how there's a utilization number
for these various tracks as well so you
can find out how busy they are really
handy and if you click you'll get the
list of all the trains using this
particular track so then you can go and
click on it and get some information
love the feedback I've said it before
strategy games are all about getting
information out there suppose it could
just run track in the back of Nolan
breeding but then we'd have to worry
about setting up sightings already
alright let's go and take out a bond
boom let's take out the biggest one a
lot of interest but you know bankruptcy
is it's fun right okay so I'm gonna buy
this track which we'd already planned
out which is nice I only got the one
percent incline which is lovely we're
gonna set up a new train which is gonna
go from Thomas breeding to Baltimore
bringing meat in there which is gonna be
excellent and we'll add in our
grasshopper locomotive we've got an
engineer kicking around and available
you have maximum speed it's a long route
let's go ahead and hire you that's gonna
be okay alright and you are carrying a
whole bunch of cattle with you which
again we'll dump into Baltimore which
has extra demand for it because of the
business and will then produce meat and
leather goods and it wouldn't surprise
me if Washington Oh actually Washington
has its own meat industry as well but
maybe we could bring this stuff to
something like New York City
that sounds pretty tempting there we go
locomotive slowed Rita missing equipment
so this notice here is letting us know
we need to build a supply tower here so
that above halfway through the route
there and over here as well as a long
route the supply tower will let you
refill with water sand and lubricant
that are required to make the trains go
we'll get our supply route over here
through this one is still missing that I
guess they just they start with a fairly
big load of it and it's not a problem at
first but that's definitely the case
this train should make a little pit stop
over here restock its supplies and go
the the supply tower also counts as a
signal and we be looking at the signal
stuff relatively soon we just need more
money for more trains here um vegetables
do we need vegetables in Baltimore the
Baltimoreans and that's probably not
what they're called do they eat
vegetables they do actually have a
demand for vegetables some things are
grayed out these will tend to open up I
think as the city gets bigger they do
produce the leather as well while to
figure out somewhere to go with it they
get some vegetables in but clearly we
can go and make a little vegetable farm
over here so I'm gonna build a small
station here I'm gonna build you yet
just off this way
and what I'm gonna do is I'm going to
connect you to the back of Thomas
breeding because it's gonna be very
cheap and so my goal here is gonna build
to build a train that goes from lopes
farm over to baltimore oh let me unlock
this train first BAM this new car rather
so that we can add this new locomotive
this new locomotive has like double the
performance quite higher speed fair bit
more expensive
um what's the maintenance and
reliability 104 oh it's actually not as
reliable you know we'll just build
another grasshopper for this save a
little bit of cash now we will run into
a problem here because this train you
see it's waiting for another train
because this track is not clear in fact
it'll never be clear this train will
keep taking advantage of the fact that
we can get like uncontested auctions in
this solo mode here this train will
always be in the way of the other one in
fact I believe this one here might also
it's one can move happily because he can
move all the way here so what do we need
to do well we need to set up some
sidings and signals so if we go into our
building construction we've got the
signals over here we can put signals on
the track and what they will do is they
let you sort of subdivide your track
into steps so that your trains can move
up to this signal and then wait there
they have a direction they can put them
on one side of the track or the other so
if I go ahead and put it here what's
gonna happen is this train will then
move up to here and then be stopped
because there's still someone in his way
but he can at least move up to here so
far so that's an improvement by default
a regular signal doesn't limit a train
to one direction in fact it'd probably
be quite common for us to you know put a
pair of signals back-to-back like this
you can force a signal to be one
directional by shift-clicking on the
post now this is a one directional route
you get a no entry from the other side
that's not what we're looking for here
though I just want this guy to stop if
there's someone in the station and then
over here what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
build a little siding setup so we're
gonna track construction I'm gonna click
right over here and I'm gonna pull it
out to there and it actually snaps oh
very nice that you can actually see the
icon change that twin-track so then it
snaps to the track very nicely
well stretch it out a certain amount and
then I'll rejoin to another switch over
here we're gonna lock this in and what
we're gonna do is we are going to build
signals over here which will allow us to
say something like well two things one
we're gonna wait here to make sure that
we don't have two trains on this bit of
the track and same thing we can put
another little wait signal over here
hang on I just gotta find a place far
enough away from the switch there we go
now this again does not enforce one-way
routes so but if i shift-click it now
these signals will only let trains go in
assert in one direction I'll put another
signal on the entrance this siding here
and here and now see that the trains can
pass each other I'll go ahead I don't
need I think to make this in one way
because it's already one way there and
obviously the trains can't use it anyway
but we may as well do the whole setup so
now those two trains can pass each other
I mean it's not gonna be quite as a free
flow as if we had dual track the whole
way but it certainly enables a lot more
stuff to go on we have some more
technology going around or over here we
had a detonator
which gives us more reliability on
trains they don't break down as much
that sounds pretty good and more
reliability over here well let's unlock
this one it's apparently cheap at the
the 100 the cowcatcher gives is more
performance let's do the spark arrestor
think that's gonna be okay
and then we've actually unlocked enough
technology we could unlock the Dunham
train afterwards which is awfully nice
we got an accountant available I believe
that is an office personnel so someone
we can hire for our office which detects
inconsistencies and bids for new
locomotives and therefore produces
purchase prices by 10% hey we get
cheaper trains sounds like you're good
an investment for our office over here
entire security guard over here prevent
bandit racks on trains and a
cause the 5% increase in freight prices
that sounds pretty good let's go ahead
and hire this guy and let's pick a train
that's gonna carry Freight like this one
over here and I'll give him a security
guard there you go
no no conflicts over here so we'll get
that started sounds lovely
yes we can hire office personnel I know
thank you very much
okay we've got some money let's see if
we can make our way to New York City so
these guys will still have to slow down
from time to time oh I think a professor
will give us extra research yes no oh
this is a one-shot employee gives
research tax your companies you receive
160 thousand and a one-off innovation
point reduction of 11 so if we hire this
guy we lose some innovation points but
we get a whole bunch of money that
sounds good to me right now actually
that is really handy let's see if we can
make our way to New York I I'm gonna
start with a small station but we're
definitely gonna plan on the fact that
expansions will almost certainly happen
I think I'm gonna build my station this
way and down there so we can expand sort
of northwards from this point of view I
mean that's not north I think that's
West but still you know what I mean
to the top of the screen I'm gonna plop
this guy down over here and we are going
to start well we're gonna need at least
two lines if not three because I think I
want a dedicated line from Thomas
breeding and Lopez farm to come this way
as well clearly we'll need another
sighting I'll want a dedicated line I
think for Nolan breeding into here and
then a dedicated line for the New York
to Baltimore run although we could have
the New York to Baltimore run share the
same line as Nolan breeding and use some
sort of siding here for a little bit of
extra space in any case I think it's
probably a good idea to go and invest to
expand the station will also want to
maintenance a station but I'm gonna wait
a little bit longer so that we've got
the cash so we're gonna get you to come
over here
let me actually start here just trying
to find a good way across this river
that we can then branch and share I'm
thinking actually there is no good way
it's fairly expensive but I think is all
right now I could use two set of one
train with two stops service both of
these but I don't think that's gonna be
good it's possible though but now we'll
just have one from Nolan breeding to
here add a locomotive we'll keep using
the small ones for this but then we'll
make sure that our next our route from
Baltimore to New York really sees a lot
of action I'm gonna hold off on Lopez
farm for a second until we can get all
the sightings and things worked out here
um I actually started from the wrong
connection here let me go I'm just gonna
pop uh supply power down there cuz it'll
be nice to actually subdivide the other
route for me I'm going to delete that
bit and reconnect you that way a little
bit of wasting from way too much wasted
money that's okay
letting us know that train was waiting
for activation cuz it couldn't get where
we wanted we'll go ahead and and bid for
the train whistle train should be okay
now yes no Thomas breeding can York
I think you will in fact be okay in a
moment let me go and redo your track I
think you might have gotten confused so
we're gonna trash and trash and say that
your route is gonna be thomas breeding
to new york let's try this again and go
oh all right but those trains in the way
we've got to work on our siding okay
let's do that right away that's what's
going on they're getting each other
stuck here so run it to they're an
deciding to their I actually have to
purchase all that excellent and we'll
put in the signaling to force the
directions so you're gonna go there
you're gonna go there be one sided and
be one sided there we go in there okay
and yeah I'll put in the entranceway as
well too this is actually a good idea or
not I'm thinking it might not be okay so
you're just waiting for war this train
to get out to the siding which is fine
I think we've eliminated all those
problems now good we'll have to do
another one over here probably no
suitable Freight uh you'll get it I
think it's because he just did a one
full round-trip with nothing in him but
now he should be picking up the cattle
it's possible New York doesn't want
cattle New York doesn't want cattle but
I bet you they want vegetables hang on a
second you are going to
not go to Thomas breeding instead you're
gonna go to Lopez farm then I bet she'll
be okay because I'm bet you in New York
wants a vegetable you just didn't want
meat or sorry they didn't want cattle
yeah they don't want cattle but they do
want veggies okay all right um I got
some money maybe not enough to complete
them up the Baltimore route we'll see uh
we can unlock the Dunham let's do it
boom 300 animation points to get
ourselves a new train Old Ironsides s
Baldwin tests locomotive we can also
check the the shed over here so that we
can see all the trains that are
available in the game and that includes
doing something like with the Dunham
here I could replace all my locomotives
with my new train if I want which I like
as a handy little time saver so what
we're gonna be doing here from New York
is I bet you to save money will pair the
same bridge over here but then we're
looking to curl out of here and actually
go in and hit Nolan's breeding I'm gonna
use a different track over here though
like that
there we go
so this is gonna have more curves and
maybe a slightly worse incline overall
but you can't build it if it's going
through something so we're gonna go
ahead and pinch it I like how easy it is
to do that though really really really
easy just so we can still have a little
bit more income coming in I will set up
a new rail line from Noland breeding
down to New York and I guess we'll use a
grasshopper from this you can have a
stoker actually for more speed um what
I'm gonna do is I'm actually while
you're around I will purchase you also
there's another professor here for some
early money money money money money
money money yeah sacrifice some
innovation points just to get things
going
early on you are complaining about a
breakdown fair enough so we have a train
going through Noland breeding between
New York now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to connect on the other side as
well from here you are going to go all
the way here and I realized we're not
we're not building much in the way of
directional tracks but I think that's
okay although these here could actually
be directional
let's do something like this do some
more work but that's okay and then what
we're gonna do is we're actually gonna
have a two directional track between
Baltimore and New York to here and then
merge in like that and then what I want
is some signals to say that goes that
way just click and you are going this
way
shift click one way so that'll enforce a
one-way direction on everything over
here you do get a sub break at the
supply stations which is nice and then
over here we're gonna put a signal that
way and then I'll put another one over
here on the way in like that
and what we need to make sure is that
trains don't enter this place if there's
gonna be a blockade so we need I don't
even I didn't leave myself enough room I
think that's gonna be okay the trains
are relatively smart I think we'll be
fine so now I've got enough money I want
to build my final sort of big thing from
Baltimore to New York
I might make two actually so I want a
fast train over here and I'm gonna give
them the speedy stoker that's gonna be
all right I'm tempted to make one and
Express in one something else tell you
what let's go ahead and manage the train
we were gonna say we're gonna put a
dining car and a mail car on here oh we
haven't researched them nevermind I was
gonna do that and then also making an
express train but yeah we've got unlock
some more tech here we have the train
whistle because we spent money for it
yeah it's got a star cuz there's some
text I can afford but I can actually
reach it yet so we're gonna come back
when we've got a few more options and
hopefully no one is ever sitting around
stuff keep a look at all ornate Lister
trains
what's your deal oh I think that was
just a breakdown so you're gonna be fine
and yeah we can keep an eye on some of
these things to make sure they're
flowing correctly so this is not this is
not one-way traffic these are two-way
traffic that are going to a specific
Junction over here or a platform I
should say so we're good there you're
returning I think to the farm
empty-handed which is okay I think we
want a siding here or we're gonna want
another to e-track which i think is
probably what we should do
we've got the money for it yeah let's go
ahead and invest we'll give it a fair
amount of space over here bring it in
this way and we're gonna go all the way
down to
all the way down to somewhere here
heywhat stay locked thank you anything
over here
Oh can I not snap it here I'm making the
corner
you know what's fine we can build a
second bridge oh yeah it's not making
the corner
that's okay there you go and I want you
to merge up over there that's gonna be
fine um let's move you out a little
scooch
there we are
all right a little bit sloppy but you
know that's pretty typical for me let's
go and build some signals here and make
this yeah make this a one-way
because it's already signal let's
actually put this right over here I like
that and then from here like that
excellent we are going to want a couple
of supply towers along the way and again
because they act as signals they can sub
break up these blocks to make sure the
trains can keep moving fairly
efficiently and you are gonna be a
one-way that way as one last stop before
you go out and you're gonna come over
here now we did just get a pop up
hopefully oh that's just a break down as
far as I know we still get everything
going okay let's go and unlock the John
Hancock for no money everything's easier
without opponents the bonus are pretty
colorful and they certainly make the
game a lot difficult because you can't
actually have opponents move into the
same city as you and compete over the
same goods they have to build their own
station but it's entirely possible for
say two people to be in New York which
can be pretty hairy
what is this seat upholstery increase
the number of passengers in every city
where your company has a station by 15%
that's kind of nice although I think
we're gonna go for some performance
boosters over here I think that's quite
swell will Express is the fastest train
we hit 32 miles an hour now one of the
cool things I like is you can actually
let's find that Baltimore to New York
train over here you can actually get all
kinds of stats about how fast they
travel in different
which i think is very nifty the uphills
and downhills that's kind of what's
being represented over here so we can
hit our P top speed sort of going
downhill
we've got an engineer available over
here for this route carefree more speed
and oh they actually get along so these
two this guy is making this guy happy so
we're actually getting a boost instead
of a 5% he's doing a 7% so between these
two there both boosting the speed
acceleration and performance a lot
really nice security guard is available
new applicant over here another ones
making them particularly happy but
that's okay we'll do that how about this
conductor yeah that wouldn't work out
I'll have to see if we can get some new
conductors later on another stoker
available here we could pre buy more of
them but that's gonna be alright oh we
have a real problem now I think that was
just probably another breakdown mmm
there are some trains maybe waiting over
here from time to time a couple more
breakdowns oh I need to get a
[Music]
maintenance building in New York to
prevent them from having any more
problems our Tech's coming along all
right well we completed the rural
stations in time we need revenue from
transporting mail to go up and up and up
so what I think I'm going to do is I'm
gonna explicitly build a new train which
is New York to Baltimore that's just
gonna be for rail to make sure or sorry
mail just to make sure that we are
trying to do that as aggressively as
possible it's that is Express stuff so
will who use the Dunham's will go ahead
and use the stoker here for a little bit
of a spoon of speed boost that's gonna
be okay
now instead of being automatic I'm gonna
set it to be manual now one of the
things you can do and you can do this
without setting it to manual even on
automatic I can go in New York and tell
it a few things for example I can tell
it to prefer one platform over another
or not for anything I can just give it a
priority for example even if I don't set
the manual I could say listen prioritize
mail whenever possible I can also say
don't leave unless you've got at least a
couple of car loads worth of stuff and
the other station which I guess actually
I could have just cycled this way same
thing prioritize the mail
don't leave until you've got at least a
couple so we got a nice little symbol
there and said okay cool Express train
well we've hit 38 miles an hour you are
waiting on a train right over here which
is wait was we using one of our our
siding so we're actually getting a bit
of a backlog of trains waiting to come
into platform number two now we might
want to do something about that and we
totally can
so let's say we just do a little
something like that okay boom and oh I
may have not done it far enough hold on
let me Bowl those here give this as much
Erico parallel and then join it over
here
because I want to tell these trains hey
don't enter that block to the right over
here unless it's clear so they can wait
here I don't think we actually need that
because they will use the platform's
relatively smartly again those are not
one-way signal so it's gonna be alright
now my mail train over here
well actually I think it'll use the
other platform like I think they're both
available now let's see in Baltimore I'm
gonna encourage you to use the third
platform so there's less competition
there we go that's a more tech coming
online by the way there's the next arrow
over here um can we get there's a
caboose what do I want I want the mail
car dining car
so unlocking the Gervais might be the
best way to get there so let's unlock
the Gervais always that's efficient
steam even on steep inclines good
climber state we get different trains
for different purposes take the price
for passengers that's good oh we got a
bonus if we go to willing oh my god it's
a million miles away Oh bonus for new
industry hmm we'll see Baltimore are you
growing no you're not really growing
right now you want some beer hey you and
me both buddy we got corn we've got with
a cloth still where can we get some
cloth from I think is an excellent
question well there's nothing Otto
flowing here is anything producing cloth
cuz right it's cotton
you got cotton over here or wool yeah
it's pretty far away we sort of want to
make our way up past Alba Neiman and get
the cotton hooked up but Baltimore
doesn't want right it needs cotton so it
can make a cloth hmm that would be an
expensive run up here is it worth a
super long distance route there's this
one here to Pittsburgh um I think it's
probably worth working our way up to
Pittsburgh actually let's say and I do
have to end this video shortly let's say
bill the station Pittsburgh let's let's
go with at least a tier two station here
something like that and then for a rail
we're gonna pick I'm gonna pick this
third one over here just semi
arbitrarily and the idea will be to go
to Pittsburgh let me go and plop you
down but these hills so we need to put a
little marker because there's a little
passageway right over here we could
build that for 1.5 million and a lot of
tunnels or we can come along this way I
mean it's still going kind of nuts with
the bridging that is gonna be one brutal
incline and it's very expensive track
and there's still a lot of bridging
which we sort of kind of do we have to
put up with that I guess I can do this
and build a tunnel instead which might
be better for the incline and we're
saving a little bit of money we got
another tunnel three oh hold on we can
probably dodge that and that there we go
we're down to four hundred twenty seven
thousand um do we have a pass over here
we could go closer to the river actually
whoops and I'll this tangle this stuff
in a second
3% 0% okay this is looking a little
stronger it's a bit the strippin tine
but I think it might be our best bet and
it's only costing us 200 grand from
avoiding bridges and whatnot it's a
fairly long route but not a bad one so
first thing I'm gonna do is I'm innocent
no stopping over nine hundred sixty
seven miles of track we'll set up the
rail line which is gonna be Baltimore
Pittsburgh to start off with clearly
this will clearly have to have double
tracks and signals and all kinds of
things but we'll set things up first
we're gonna use our fastest train
fastest infantis looks like this is
Jarvis over here it's quite pricey but
very good all right so at least you'll
do that we'll need um we'll need some
supply stations and things we got Rory
over here nice oh you can buy all these
businesses by the way so I could buy
this this would business over here this
logging business only 67,000 if I get a
rail service to it it's going could be
much much better the cattle here too
much more expensive because it's
actually reaching Pittsburgh yeah we can
look into some of this stuff so let's
finish this up by getting a small
station set up right by the cotton and
we're going to hook it up with rail to
go right through Pittsburgh I could also
have it just bypass Pittsburgh but this
is gonna be okay and we'll be setting up
a train and these won't really work
right now but it's gonna be okay over to
Baltimore and say okay extending eight
stations excellent I love the newspaper
we want the most performant train which
looks like either the Gervais or the
numbness is gonna be fine what's yeah
we'll unlock that what's the reliability
they're about the same so we may as well
go for the Gervais over here same
reliability a little faster scooch more
expensive but barely worth mentioning oh
you can access a stoker as well may as
well get you for some more speed not
that there's an Express route but it's a
long route so now we definitely have to
set up some double tracking over here
because it's a long long long
and multiple trains are in fact using it
so we need to get you set up here you
can't actually go all the way to the end
it'll be pretty smart but just a little
easier for me to go in little bits and
pieces over here so the double tracked
the entire way to here and then we'll
get you to merge up and you can both use
that platform and I think that's gonna
be okay we can always split this up
later on and that's gonna be fine we're
gonna set up some signals over here to
say you have to wait that way and you're
one way and you're one way that way and
I just have to do the other side and
again for here you are gonna wait here
before going into the merge and this
one's not strictly necessary but I'm
gonna go ahead and do that and make sure
a train can get out of the way of this
crossing and park itself there and we'll
build some supply towers along the way
there's gonna be a very expensive round
yep
letting us know hey you may want to
remember to build some supply towers I
got you buddy oh and we're out of money
but there we go we're actually making a
fair amount of money right now despite
the fact are alone oh not enough
equipment but it's okay it's restocking
over there I think I might build one in
between here as well okay so now we
should be getting cotton / wool
deliveries oh it was this train over
here but it presumably has dropped it
off
so if we look here yeah we've got wool
and it's gonna start to be converted
over into cloth now who wants cloth does
New York do we have a fashion industry
in New York
it's actually got its own weaving
Factory um what about in Washington no
it doesn't we didn't grow Washington I
could build another business here I have
to get some goods into it do you need
wood cuz you've got some but we could
probably ferry it in here and get you to
grow a little bit faster oh yeah we can
set up warehouses too
that's one of the things you can do if
you scroll down a warehouse is a just a
giant sort of station that stores goods
and you can have it as a centralized
thing which then gets distributed a
little bit further through everything we
should probably go and invest in a
maintenance building over here in
Pittsburgh still attracts are going ok
it could be that we've built up more
than we need it could be that we could
have better flow than this but our
business is going now if we had actual
AI competitors they'd probably be
kicking up but I bet you you need wood
if we go and just do this New York is
already hitting size four which is
awesome and get you here and I'll get
you to come in on the no not on the
inner because there's oh there's not
more stuff down there nevermind that is
going to be okay so we're gonna purchase
that get a locomotive
you're gonna go logging in New York and
we will add probably the just the cheap
ol Jan John Hancock over here good
reliability decent passenger rating -
not that it matters good acceleration I
think you're gonna go swell for running
the the logs into New York and you know
you got plenty of it you should make
some money
lovely so that's going to be the end of
our first look at this game we are going
to be making some more videos of this in
the future but right now the the
permissions because it's still
pre-release we're just doing this one
solo video although I did do it extra
long for y'all we are gonna be doing
some more
in the the weeks and months leading up
to the actual release of the game so
don't worry there's gonna be plenty more
railway empire coming up I know I'm
gonna be playing it a lot and almost
certainly there's gonna be a lot of it
on the up tubs at some point in the
future thanks for watching folks I will
see you guys next time
you